
---
title: Email Options
slug: email_options
taxonomy:
    category:
        - settings
    tag:
        - options
        - email
visible: true
template: article
version: 5.3.3
visible: false
date: 12/05/2017 09:07pm
---

## Enable Email features?
Enable the following email-sending features:<br />
Report Bad Post<br />
'Contact Us' Link<br />
Email a Member<br />
Email this Page to a Friend<br />
New Post Notifications to Members<br />
<br />
You can turn off the 'Send to Friend' feature for individual user groups in the <a href="admincp/usergroup.php?do=modify" target="_blank">User Permissions area</a>.

## Email Flood Check
Specify in seconds how much time must elapse before a user may send consecutive emails.<br /><br />Set to 0 to disable this flood check. Admins are always exempt from this floodcheck.

## Use Cron Based Sending
If enabled, vBulletin will send queued e-mails in batches using the scheduled task. You must set a sensible batch value and make sure queuing is enabled.

## E-Mail Send Delay
The number of seconds delay before sending each e-mail. Use with caution. Normally you would set this only if you are hitting limits for your hosting account. Do not adjust this unless you understand the consequences.

## Use Mailqueue System
When enabled, subscription emails generated by your site will be processed in batches to lessen the load on your server. Account activation, lost passwords and other vital emails are sent instantly regardless of this setting. If your site has low traffic, subscription emails may be delayed.
<br /><br />
If you have a large site, you may wish to enable locking. This prevents a rare situation where the same email is sent multiple times.

## Number of Emails to Send Per Batch
vBulletin includes a mail queuing system to prevent bottlenecks when sending lots of email. Use this option to specify how many emails will be sent per batch.

## Bounce Email Address
The email address where bounce messages will be directed. If this field is blank, the Webmaster Email address will be used.<br />
<br />
This email is used when using an SMTP server, or when the 'Enable -f Parameter' email for sendmail is switched on.

## Enable '-f' Parameter
Some sendmail servers may require the '-f' parameter to be sent with email calls from PHP.  If you are having problems with users not receiving email, try enabling this option.  In all likelihood, your problem will not be caused by this setting.<br />
<br />
<span style="color: red">This setting does not work when PHP SAFE MODE is enabled.</span>

## Use Bulk Header?
Mail servers using Exchange will send auto responders unless you mark your email as bulk mail.  While there is no documented case of emails being marked as spam directly due to this header, there is no guarantee what other mail servers will do with this header.<br />
<br />
Set this option to 'yes' if you are getting tired of all the auto responders in your webmaster email from Exchange servers.

## Encode as UTF-8
If this is set to 'Yes' then emails will be reencoded to UTF-8 before sending, if possible.

## SMTP Email
Set this option to yes to use an SMTP server rather than the internal PHP mail() function.

## SMTP Host
If you've enabled SMTP mail, please specify the host here.  You may find that specifying an IP Address rather than a domain name, results in better performance. Example: smtp.gmail.com

## SMTP Port
If you've enabled SMTP mail, please specify the port here.

## SMTP Username
If you've enabled SMTP mail and your server requires authentication, please specify your username here.

## SMTP Password
If you've enabled SMTP mail and your server requires authentication, please specify your password here.

## SMTP Secure Connection
If you've enabled SMTP mail and your server requires a TLS connection, please set this to yes. This requires OpenSSL support to be compiled into PHP.

## Extra Headers
If you want to include extra smtp header information, add it here.

## Email users a message on their birthday
If enabled, this will send the user an email on their birthday except for certain groups (banned users, users awaiting activation or moderation, or user groups with birthday displays disabled).

Users can also disable the emails individually in their user settings.

## Activity period for Birthday Emails
Users whose last visit is more than this many days will not receive a birthday email.  This prevents people who signed up a long while ago and forgotten from getting emails they consider spam.

Enter a value of 0 if you want to send email to all users regardless of activity.



